This project is split into a backend and frontend. The backend directory consists of node_modules, .env which keeps the client id and client secret secure, app.js, .gitignore, package-lock.json, and package.json. In app.js, there are several import statements used to access the Spotify Web API. Then the client id and client secret are accessed through the .env file so they stay secure. A lot of this authorization code was borrowed/inspired by Kickblip on Github, so it is very dense and hard to explain. There are algorithms in app.js such as generateRandomString and sha256 that help encrypt the session key, keeping the web app secure. The const scope tells us what permissions (i.e. the scope of the permissions) the web app needs from the user. The purpose of the backend is to help foster the communication between the user and Spotify via the API. The user is redirected to Spotify to log in, Spotify gives them an access token, and the web app gains access to information on the user's liked tracks, playlists, etc. for future use in the app (in this case, for the taste match percentage and custom playlist).

The frontend consists of a src directory that contains two subdirectories: components and pages. React components are different features of the app that have their own functions. For this web app, I created three components: LoginButton.js, Percentage.js, and PlaylistGenerator.js. The LoginButton component contains the frontend of the log in logic. It redirects the user to the homepage if an access token is found and triggers the authorization flow if there is not yet an access token. It helps the website stay secure by only redirecting if there is a successful login. 

The Percentage.js component contains the logic that generates a numeric value representing the "taste match" percentage. The access token is used to make calls to the API to request information about the user's top tracks and Dean Khurana's 4 most recent playlists (For simplicity, I only access his 4 most recent playlists. Accessing his liked songs would require me to have access to his account.). I fetch the IDs of the top tracks of the logged in user and store them into a comma-seperated string in order to retrieve the audio features from them (energy, danceability, and valence). I repeat this proccess using an array of the playlist IDs of Dean Khurana's 4 most recent playlists. These playlists are public, so I didn't need any special permissions to access their data. I then find the average energy, danceability, and valence of the tracks from both the user's tracks and Dean Khurana's tracks from his playlists. I calculate the Euclidean distance between each of the audio features to return a numeric "distance" value (higher value = farther distance = less similar). I subtract this distance from the maxDistance to return a value that can be used as a taste match percentage. This percentage value is returned as a header and exported so it can be accessed by the home page.

PLAYLIST GEN DESCRIPTION

There are two .js files in the pages subdirectory of the frontend: Home.js and Login.js. Login.js is rendered intially and renders the LoginButton component to prompt user authorization. Home.js is rendered if the login is successful, and this page renders the Percentage.js and PlaylistGenerator.js components.

The App.js file in the frontend directory is the main root of the app. FINISH THIS, REACT ROUTER?

There are several CSS files in this project. App.css and index.css contain styling that come with the React package. Login.css and Home.css contain the styling for each of their respective pages, including the font, background and colors.